so I think the big difference between
the console wars of the 80s and 90s the
ones between Sega Nintendo and the
console wars of today between Sony
Microsoft and Nintendo as well the big
differences is that back in the day it
really was like the wild wild west these
were the lawless days of the industry
you know they were writing the rules as
they went along it wasn't even an
industry at the time it was just sort of
this growing hobby and for that reason
they were able to take a lot more risks
and they were also able to do a lot of
things that you probably won't be able
to get away with today I think that
really makes the story a lot more
compelling because it's sort of that
idea of their creating this industry and
they're this train on the tracks and
they're putting the tracks down in front
of them as they go along and the other
thing with today is that you know at the
games today are extraordinary the
graphics are incredible but what goes
into that is a much larger financial
investment and you can't afford to take
as many risks whether it be marketing or
product development it's gonna be a
little bit more like the Hollywood model
of bigger tentpole games there's not
gonna really be those niche hits and the
big risks that Sega Nintendo took all
the time to first establish themselves
and then to succeed another thing that's
been really interesting to me while
researching and writing console wars is
that the games that I was looking at
these 8-bit and 16-bit games are
actually not all too different from the
games that you find in the App Store on
iTunes and I think that that says a lot
about the way that we think about and
appreciate games so you know it's not
always about having better graphics and
bigger explosions it's about just the
gameplay value and that doesn't always
take a big budget to accomplish and
there is some joy to be found in good
more simplistic gameplay and that's why
you're seeing sort of the growing trends
in the video game world towards PC
gaming and towards the apps like Angry
Birds and candy crush